README.md, before:

Buildmap
========

A GIS workflow pipeline for designing festivals.

Buildmap takes a CAD site plan in DXF format and produces a slippy
map for viewing on the web. It supports generating both raster layers
(rendered with Mapnik), and untiled GeoJSON vector layers, which can
be rendered by the map viewer.

Under the hood, Buildmap uses [PostGIS](http://postgis.net/),
[Magnacarto](https://github.com/omniscale/magnacarto),
[Mapnik](http://mapnik.org/), and [Tilestache](http://tilestache.org/).
It allows you to visualise complex, multi-layered site plans in a
simple way, with straightforward but powerful control over rendering.

![Map of EMF 2016](/docs/emf2016.png?raw=true)

A Diagram
=========

![buildmap diagram](/docs/diagram.png?raw=true)

Requirements
============

    apt-get install postgresql-9.4 postgresql-9.4-postgis-2.1 gdal-bin tilecache ttf-mscorefonts-installer
    apt-get install python-jinja2 python-mapnik python-psycopg2 python-gdal


You'll also need to install
[Magnacarto](https://github.com/omniscale/magnacarto) into your `$PATH`
(you only need the `magnacarto` binary and not the webapp).

Source Files
============

You will need at least one `.dxf` file to use as a source, and at least
one `.mss` (CartoCSS) file to control formatting. Each .mss file will
produce one output layer (which can be controlled on the OpenLayers
map).

Web Viewer
==========

You will need a website with a javascript map viewer to view the
generated tiles. Both OpenLayers 3 and Leaflet work for this, however
OpenLayers seems to have better performance for vector layers.

The most up-to-date web interface currently is the [SHA2017 maps
site](https://github.com/sha2017/maps-web).

Setup
=====

As the Postgres user:

    createuser buildmap
    createdb -O buildmap -EUNICODE [databasename]
    psql -d [databasename] -c "CREATE EXTENSION postgis;"

Allow your user to access the GIS database. The easiest (although not
necessarily most secure) way of doing this is to add the following line
to `pg_hba.conf`

    local   [databasename]         buildmap                   trust

Then test this with:

    psql -U buildmap [database name]


Configuration
=============

You need to create two configuration files - one (local.conf) will contain
the host-specific configuration (paths and database details), the other
(map.conf) will contain the rendering configuration for your map.

Example config files can be found in the [config directory](/config).

Running Buildmap
================

`python ./buildmap.py /path/to/map.conf /path/to/local.conf`

You can optionally pass the `--preseed` command line option, which will cause
buildmap to generate all the tiles when it runs.

Alternatively you can use Tilestache to serve the map tiles dynamically,
using the `tilestache.json` file generated by buildmap.

Notes on GDAL
=============

GDAL (which provides the ogr2ogr tool used to import DXF files into
PostGIS), has some version-specific issues, primarily with how it
imports DXF hatches. Hatches are the only way to represent complex filled
polygons with holes in (such as lakes with islands).

Some versions of GDAL produce lots of unintentional areas when rendering
hatches. The following is a limited list of versions:

* GDAL 1.10.1: Confirmed issues with hatching
* GDAL 1.11.3: Known working
* GDAL 1.11.5: Possible issues
* GDAL 2.1.1: Possible issues
* GDAL 2.1.2: Known working

Credits
=======

[Russ Garrett](https://github.com/russss)

This is based on [Redlizard's](https://github.com/redlizard) work for OHM2013.

Commit message:

Update README; change to pipenv

README.md, after:

Buildmap
========

A GIS workflow pipeline for designing festivals.

Buildmap takes a CAD site plan in DXF format and produces a slippy
map for viewing on the web. It supports generating both raster layers
(rendered with Mapnik), and untiled GeoJSON vector layers, which can
be rendered by the map viewer.

Under the hood, Buildmap uses [PostGIS](http://postgis.net/),
[Magnacarto](https://github.com/omniscale/magnacarto),
[Mapnik](http://mapnik.org/), and [Tilestache](http://tilestache.org/).
It allows you to visualise complex, multi-layered site plans in a
simple way, with straightforward but powerful control over rendering.

![Map of EMF 2016](/docs/emf2016.png?raw=true)

A Diagram
=========

![buildmap diagram](/docs/diagram.png?raw=true)

Requirements
============

    apt-get install postgresql-9.4 postgresql-9.4-postgis-2.1 gdal-bin tilecache ttf-mscorefonts-installer
    apt-get install python-jinja2 python-mapnik python-psycopg2 python-gdal


You'll also need to install
[Magnacarto](https://github.com/omniscale/magnacarto) into your `$PATH`
(you only need the `magnacarto` binary and not the webapp).

Source Files
============

You will need at least one `.dxf` file to use as a source, and at least
one `.mss` (CartoCSS) file to control formatting. Each .mss file will
produce one output layer (which can be controlled on the OpenLayers
map).

Web Viewer
==========

You will need a website with a javascript map viewer to view the
generated tiles. Both OpenLayers 3 and Leaflet work well, however
OpenLayers seems to have better performance for vector layers.

The most up-to-date web interface currently is the [SHA2017 maps
site](https://github.com/sha2017/maps-web).

Setup
=====

As the Postgres user:

    createuser buildmap
    createdb -O buildmap -EUNICODE [databasename]
    psql -d [databasename] -c "CREATE EXTENSION postgis;"

Allow your user to access the GIS database. The easiest (although not
necessarily most secure) way of doing this is to add the following line
to `pg_hba.conf`

    local   [databasename]         buildmap                   trust

Then test this with:

    psql -U buildmap [database name]


Configuration
=============

You need to create two configuration files - one (local.conf) will contain
the host-specific configuration (paths and database details), the other
(map.conf) will contain the rendering configuration for your map.

Example config files can be found in the [config directory](/config).

Running Buildmap
================

Run `pipenv install` to create a virtualenv, and then `pipenv shell` to enter it.

`python ./buildmap.py /path/to/map.conf /path/to/local.conf`

You can optionally pass the `--preseed` command line option, which will cause
buildmap to generate all the tiles when it runs.

Alternatively you can use Tilestache to serve the map tiles dynamically,
using the `tilestache.json` file generated by buildmap.

Notes on GDAL
=============

GDAL (which provides the ogr2ogr tool used to import DXF files into
PostGIS), has some version-specific issues, primarily with how it
imports DXF hatches. Hatches are the only way to represent complex filled
polygons with holes in (such as lakes with islands).

Some versions of GDAL produce lots of unintentional areas when rendering
hatches. The following is a limited list of versions:

* GDAL 1.10.1: Confirmed issues with hatching
* GDAL 1.11.3: Known working
* GDAL 1.11.5: Possible issues
* GDAL 2.1.1: Possible issues
* GDAL 2.1.2: Known working

Credits
=======

* [Russ Garrett](https://github.com/russss) ([Electromagnetic Field](https://www.emfcamp.org))
* [Redlizard's](https://github.com/redlizard) (OHM2013 and SHA2017)
